Quick Guide: Using CI/CD Workflow for Playwright Tests


GitHub Actions CI/CD process described in the file .github/workflows/ci.yml
Test results saved in ./test-results/results.xml.

1. Triggering the Workflow
Automatic Triggers
The workflow starts automatically when:

Code is pushed to the main branch (or any specified branch in the workflow file).
A pull request is opened or updated targeting the main branch.
Manual Trigger
You can also run the workflow manually:

Navigate to the Actions tab in your GitHub repository.
Select the workflow (e.g., Playwright API Tests).
Click the Run workflow button.
Choose the branch to run the workflow against.

2. Monitoring Workflow Progress
Go to the Actions tab in your GitHub repository.
Select the most recent run of the workflow.
Expand individual steps (e.g., "Run Playwright tests") to view detailed logs, including:
Installation logs.
Test execution output.
Debugging information if tests fail.

3. Accessing Test Results
Workflow Artifacts
If the workflow saves test results to ./test-results/results.xml, you can retrieve them via artifacts:

After the workflow completes (successfully or with failures), go to the Actions tab.
Click on the specific workflow run.
Look for the Artifacts section in the workflow summary.
Download the artifact (e.g., test-results.zip) containing the results.xml file.
Using the Test Results
The results.xml file contains test results in JUnit XML format, which can be:
Viewed Locally:
Use an XML viewer/editor to examine the test results.
Integrated with Tools:
Import the file into CI tools (like Jenkins) or test result viewers for a structured display.

4. Debugging Test Failures
Check Logs:
Expand the "Run Playwright tests" step in the Actions logs to see error messages or stack traces.
Analyze Results:
Open results.xml to identify which tests failed and the reasons.

5. Workflow Maintenance
Common Adjustments
Modify Test Configuration:
Update the .github/workflows/ci.yml file to change triggers or environment settings.

Local Testing
Replicate the CI/CD process locally to debug before pushing changes:

Run the following commands in your terminal:
npm install
npx playwright test

Check the ./test-results/results.xml file locally for test results.

6. Rerunning the Workflow
If a workflow fails, you can retry it without pushing new code:
Open the Actions tab.
Select the failed workflow.
Click Re-run jobs.